---
layout: page
title: Research
---

My fields of interest are applied econometrics, spatial econometrics, agribusiness, and rural/urban development. In my dissertation, I study topics related to the economic impact of broadband deployment as well as interregional migration with a focus on using spatial econometric techniques in addressing these topics.

# Working Papers

### ["Broadband, Local Employment, and Population Growth,"](research/Paper-2.pdf) (Job Market Paper).

ABSTRACT: I investigate the relationship between broadband, employment, and population growth to determine the causal directions between these processes. Starting from the framework of simultaneous employment-population models, I introduce a model to account for the potential simultaneous process of broadband-employment-population for regional economies. The model is furthered by spatial econometric techniques and a causal interpretation is given between these three dynamic processes. By establishing a causal direction, the claim that broadband spurs job growth is quantitatively evaluated as well as other competing hypotheses across the three processes. Results indicate that broadband deployment is an endogenous process and correcting for endogeneity fails to find support of claims that assert broadband growth leads to employment growth for a region. This paper illuminates the need for structural models involving broadband in evaluating regional economic impacts.

# Works In Progress

### "Evaluation of USDA Broadband Loan Programs: Modeling Broadband Diffusion Across 1999 to 2008."

ABSTRACT: This paper utilizes ZIP code level data on the loan programs in order to accomplish two main goals: 1) finding a policy instrument to further help determine the value of broadband usage and 2) determining how effective the US government is in implementing public investment. The first motivation for this research determines the gains to a region for investing in broadband infrastructure that are unrelated to the natural diffusion of broadband infrastructure. Increases in broadband availability for regions suffers from causality issues without a policy instrument that controls for the natural rate of broadband diffusion. One needs to identify whether broadband increases are due to lower costs in a particular area or higher anticipated revenue streams for a particular reason and the broadband loan programs serve as this instrument. The second motivation evaluates the effectiveness of the broadband loan program, which describes government spending and allow us to identify increases in broadband availability that is separate from market forces that obfuscate the causal impact of broadband for a region. Results indicate that ZIP codes receiving broadband loans experienced approximately 0.092 additional broadband providers annually and that these benefits accrued more towards rural areas than urban areas.

### "The Effect of High-Speed Internet on U.S. Farms: An Evaluation of the USDA Broadband Loan Program," with Ivan Kandilov (NC State), Mitch Renkow (NC State), Peter Stenberg (USDA-ERS).

ABSTRACT: While there is some evidence that broadband can increase total employment for a region, the aim of this paper is to focus on productivity gains of existing workers and not the effects of higher-skilled workers migrating to a region. Further emphasis is placed on evaluating the effectiveness of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) broadband loan program in increasing the broadband availability for under-served areas. By exploiting spatial variation in the deployment rates, the effects of broadband on farmers can be identified as certain areas experienced more growth in broadband infrastructure as others throughout the late 1990s and early 2000s. The measure of productivity for the impact of broadband is from farm level data from the Agricultural Resource Management Survey (ARMS) provided by the USDA.

### "Measuring the Impact of Migration Flows: A Spaial Origin-to-Destination Model of Interregional Movement."

ABSTRACT: The aim of this paper is to establish the economic factors that drive migration between counties in the United States and to exploit these factors to estimate the economic impact that migrants have on a region's economy. The identification procedure in this paper takes two stages. The first stage estimates the determinants of bilateral migration flows between all county pairs in the United States. Then using these predicted flows, the predicted net migration for each county can be estimated by summing across all possible county flows from the first stage. The second stage uses these predicted net migration flows for each county as an instrument in an equation predicting changes in economic measurables for the county level. The second stage omits the origin county's characteristics as a way to isolate effects of net-migration on economic variables (number of firms, total employment, average wage, median home value, and total tax revenues)